Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.  A programming language is a formal language which comprises a set of instructions used to produce various kinds of output.
What jdk contains or composed of and define each components? JDK is a superset of JRE, and contains everything that is in JRE, plus tools such as the compilers and debuggers necessary for developing applets and applications.
What is IDE?  An integrated development environment (IDE) is a software suite that consolidates the basic tools developers need to write and test software.
What are the IDEs available in the market to support java? NetBeans IntelliJ IDEA Eclipse
Explain the entire java life cycle.
what is class?  a set or category of things having some property or attribute in common and differentiated from others by kind, type, or quality.
What is object? Object (computer science) ... In the class-based object-oriented programming paradigm, object refers to a particular instance of a class,
What is the entry point of an application? In C, C++, D, Rust and Kotlin programs this is a function named main
Why main is static?  This is neccesary because main() is called by the JVM before any objects are made. Since it is static it can be directly invoked via the class. Similarly, we use static sometime for user defined methods so that we need not to make objects.
Which class is the superclass of all classes? ava.lang.object is a superclass of all class. The Object class defined in the java.lang package is called as the superclass for each and every class in Java.
What is difference between path and classpath variables? Path is an environment variable which is used by the operating system to find the executables. Classpath is an environment variable which is used by the Java compiler to find the path, of classes.ie in J2EE
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class? .Main difference is methods of a Java interface are implicitly abstract and cannot have implementations. A Java abstract class can have instance methods that implements a default behavior. 2.Variables declared in a Java interface is by default final. An abstract class may contain non-final variables.
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ? You cannot create an object of abstract class or interface since they are incomplete class (interface is not even considered as a class.) .
what is Access Specifier? An access specifier is a defining code element that can determine which elements of a program are allowed to access a specific variable or other piece of data.
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.  OOP concepts in Java are the main ideas behind Java's Object Oriented Programming. They are an abstraction, encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism.
What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
What is method overloading and when it happens?
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
What is final, finally and finalize?
What is a constructor ? initializes the object
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
What is "this" keyword in java ?
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
What is JVM stand for ?
Is JVM platform independent?
What version of java are you using?
What is JAR stand for ?
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
What is compile time and run time?
What is heap?
How java manage it's memory?
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
What is Singleton class?
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
when to use transient variable in java?
Difference between while and do..while loop?
What is Enum?
What is Iterator?
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Why is String Immutable in Java?
What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
what is multithreading in java?
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?









